# TetheredRing
A Tethered Ring is a dynamic structure that can cost-effectively support space launch facilities, transportation infrastructure, and a sizable human settlement at high altitudes. An altitude of 32 km and a population of 250,000 is shown to be achievable using circa 2017 science and technology.  The structure resembles a pipeline formed into a ring having a diameter similar to that of Earth’s moon. It stays aloft primarily by generating and properly combining inertial forces with tensile forces to offset the pull of gravity. The inertial forces are produced by the circular motion of magnetically levitated rings within the pipeline, and the tensile forces are generated by appropriately tethering the pipelines to the planet using stays made of strong, light-weight, industrial fiber.  The entire structure can be fabricated on Earth and neither its construction nor its deployment depends on a pre-existing space infrastructure or space-based industry. The deployed structure is resilient to catastrophic failure because its precision-guided fast moving components are: a) not exposed to seismic or climatic battering, and b) safely above and thus out of range of tacit civilizational threats, such attacks involving torpedoes or commandeered aircraft.  The tethered ring is an optimal “stepping stone” infrastructure for furnishing humanity with a safe, affordable, and sustainable means to escape Earth’s gravity, expand its civilization into space, and ultimately evolve into a multi-planetary species.  Check out the brief explanation and full whitepaper at: https://www.project-atlantis.com/

# Getting started
1.	If you haven't already, install the 16.13.0 LTS version of node.js (note: a more recent version may work too) from here: https://nodejs.org/en/
2.	Create a directory for three.js projects on your PC. For example: C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\
3.	Clone the latest version of the TetheredRing project into this directory
```
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js> git clone https://github.com/philipswan/TetheredRing.git
```
4.	If on Windows, open “PowerShell” and “cd” to the directory that you created is step 2. Then run the following commands in that directory (only use the text after the command prompts below):
```
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing> cd TetheredRing
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing> npm install
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing> npm run dev
```
5.	Open Chrome (note: other browsers may work too but just are untested) and paste the url provided by the "npm run dev" command into the browser (note: this url is probably "http://localhost:3000/").
6.	You should immediately see a sphere with a ring on it appear. You should be able to interact with it. If you press the "W" key, this should jump you up close to a transit terminus on the ring. However, at this point the earth is missing its texture.
7. To fix this (on Windows), enter the following commands...
```
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing> cd textures
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures> wget https://www.project-atlantis.com/wp-content/threejs-simulation/textures/bluemarble_16384.png -outfile bluemarble_16384.png
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures> mkdir 24x12\LR
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures> mkdir 24x12\HR
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures> cd 24x12\LR
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures\24x12\LR> foreach ($X in @(0..23)) {foreach ($Y in @(0..11)) {curl.exe -O https://www.project-atlantis.com/wp-content/threejs-simulation/textures/24x12/LR/earth_LR_24x12_${X}x${Y}.jpg}}
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures\24x12\LR> cd ..\HR
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures\24x12\HR> foreach ($X in @(0..23)) {foreach ($Y in @(0..11)) {curl.exe -O https://www.project-atlantis.com/wp-content/threejs-simulation/textures/24x12/HR/earth_HR_24x12_${X}x${Y}.jpg}}
PS C:\Users\Username\Documents\repos\Three.js\TetheredRing\textures\24x12\HR> cd ..\..\..
```
8. Now if you go back to the browser tab, and press \<cntrl\> + \<shift\> + 'R', this will reload the webpage. The model may take longer to load, but now the earth should appear tectured.

If you make changes to main.js, or any of the other project files, these changes will immediately take effect in the browser. Note that when working on the project, on occasion you may need to refresh the browser with \<cntrl\> + \<shift\> + 'R' in order for the model to display properly.

# Using the Model - Keyboard:
'P' will move the point that you orbit around. It will place it just above the surface of the Earth, or on the transit tube, depending on which of these objects the sprite is hovering over when you press this key.
'O' will mode the point that you orbit around back to the center of the Earth.
'R' and 'L' will slowly raise and lower the ring.
'U' and 'D' will increase and decrease the altitude of the camera.
'Z' and 'X' will slowly zoom in or out.
'Q' will cause camera to slowly orbit around the point set by 'P' or 'O'.
'W' will instantly "warp" you over to a point much closer to the ring.
